CASH REGISTER README

I will forego explaining how to run this program; I'm going to assume it will be opened in a C# IDE and executed that way; C# files are so complex that I'm genuinely unsure if you could call them from a command prompt. I mean, they probably are, but I sure as bloody all get-out have no idea how to do it. 
Additionally, I will spare you the instructions on how to use the program; I know you know how it works, just by looking at it. That would be true even if it hadn't been YOU who told ME what specifications to build it to. Now, that doesn't necessarily mean it meets all specifications. I certainly THINK it does, I INTENDED for it to, but between C# being a completley new experience for me, having an unexpected pile of assignments to grade that both I and my professor believed were happening next week, and a small army of confused children to tutor, I will admit, something may have fallen through the cracks.

But probably not, though. I think I'm pretty un-bad at this. And I say that just so it's clear that the above is not meant to evoke pity or mercy, and instead to assert that I am a swaggering ponce, who deserves whatever grade is coming to him. Which is hopefully in the general territory of an A or B. At any rate:

Experience with C# wasn't too bad. Knowing that C#'s whole claim to fame is its object-oriented nature, it's HALF-intuitive as to how to do certain things (dot operators, constructors, native methods like ToString(), etc). The half that ISN'T is small things like syntax being different (functions appear to be in TitleCase, not camelCase, which gave me a half dozen errors, one after another, until I realized the unifying similarity between them all), or the specific function having a slightly different name to call. All in all, fairly similar to Java; the fine detailing just seems to have changed a little. Perhaps that means I wasn't digging deep enough, I couldn't say.

I can't say I'm terribly impresed with the IDE. My own propensity for frustration rages ("frustrages", I call them) aside, it's not what I would call "concise" (a match made in Heaven, then, it and I!). The interface is so bloated it can't even comfortably fit all its elements/options/buttons in a single screen, and resizing the display reveals some options or bars at the expense of others. You can't really collapse a pane, either, because you're moving back and forth between designer and coder tabs so rapidly that you'll be needing those panes before too long. Finding a specific button is difficult, and understanding all the labels is... an exercise, certainly. There's a giant toolbox of options and things to play around with, but how the Hell am I to know what a listBox is vs a gridBox or what have you? I just wanted a screen that displays text lines of objects. I found it, eventually, I think; but I won't be completely sure of that until I get a grade that isn't garbage back. And if it IS garbage, I suppose that will tell us how much we have to learn, still. And I am prepared for that, though I would prefer the alternative was the case.

If nothing else, I love programming, and I love computers. I am prepared to fail at things, and take those failures as a prodding in the direction of learning and mastery. Can't lie, though, taking hits to my pride is pretty profoundly unpleasant.